I have created an artificial
intelligence tool that you can leverage
to help you with your public speaking
skills this artificial intelligence tool
is known as a GPT You' probably heard of
chat GPT which is led by open Ai and
last fall they opened up the
functionality to build these custom gpts
for various purposes so I'm going to
walk you through the one that I built
which is called public speaking coach
and I'm going to show you how it works
so on your screen you can see the GPT
I've referred to it's called public
speaking coach and this is how it works
you go to the link which is in the video
description and there's a few prompts
that are already at the bottom to help
you get started these are some of the
most common questions I hear that people
have with regard to public speaking so
let's go ahead and choose one of these
questions how do I start my speech so I
click that and chat gbt is going to
answer it through this public speaking
coach GPT and in order to build this I
was feeding chat GPT a lot of my own
information about my best tips and
advice when it comes to public speaking
but it's also combining its knowledge
and its intelligence and what it knows
about public speaking because obviously
I don't know the answers to everything
so chat GPT incorporates my feedback but
then also does its own sourcing to give
you the best answer possible and so here
you can see it's already answered my
question and it gives some really good
suggestions it says you can start a
speech by telling a story I've spoken
about that recently I did a video called
hook your audience and that is one of
the concepts I give is to jump head
first into a story you can ask a
question share a surprising fact or
statistic these are literally all things
I included in my previous video you can
use a quote a direct address or a visual
image so it's pretty cool to see the
ideas that are generated by chat GPT
through this custom GPT and these are
all things that I would agree with so if
I go back to public speaking coach
another very common question that is
asked is I get nervous speaking help
what should I do public speaking coach
what should I do if I get nervous so you
can see already it's answering my
question which is one of the most common
questions people get because we know
public speaking is such a great f for
people and it's giving some really great
answers it's talking about using
breathing techniques to calm yourself
down positive Vis visualization I talk
about this all the time how powerful it
is to stand on the stage before you
actually give your speech and look out
even if it's just empty chairs before
the audience has showed up start looking
out there Envision what it's going to be
like talks about practice those of you
who are friends of the channel know I
talk about practicing public speaking
all all the time it's probably the most
important thing you can do to improve
your skills as a public speaker and you
focus on your message not yourself so
why am I doing this why am I bringing
this to the audience all of these tips
again are so incredibly great but you
may be thinking okay that's cool Wade
you've pre- prompted a few questions
such as what's a good closing statement
how can I engage my audience what if you
want to ask something a little bit
different and you can do that through
this GPT so for example I could say
public speaking coach how do I
incorporate body language
effectively in my
speech and public speaking coach will
respond here take in a second but it
talks first and foremost that it's a
powerful way to engage the audience so
you practice your open body language you
make eye contacts so incredibly
important you use gestures purposefully
I love this tip because we've talked in
the past how when people are trying to
force body language it almost becomes
awkward that they're using their hands
in these weird ways be purposeful choose
those moments in your speech that you
should incorporate body language and
then deliver from there it talks about
pausing for an impact movement and then
look at this there's even an interactive
exercise that this GPT is providing you
in real time it talks about preparing a
short speech recording yourself and then
reviewing and reflecting how could you
have made that body language better so
some really awesome tips from this
custom GPT this is one of the first gpts
I've personally ever made I was
experimenting last fall creating a
couple different concepts so I'm sure I
have a lot to learn about creating a GPT
but open AI has made it pretty simple to
do this process so I'm excited I'd love
to hear your feedback go out and try
public spech coach let me know what is
working well is that GPT giving you good
advice this is another relatively free
resource I wanted to provide all of you
the relatively is because of course you
have to have that subscription to chat
GPT but I think that this is a huge
productivity tool that most people can
benefit from so all of you who are chat
GPT users go try out this custom GPT
I've made called public speaking coach
let me know if it was helpful